Next, let's talk about HTTP.
And during this we're gonna implement
HTTPS, which you really need.
You can't run your website, you can't
run Web Bluetooth, you can't run service
workers, you can't run a lot of things,
it can only be run over HTTPS.
And then we're gonna set up HTTP2,
which is even better version of HTTP.
The good news is,
this will go a lot smoother because
we don't have to do that much.
There are tools in place
that do all this for us.
And that's the good thing about
using Nginx is it's a default.
So, there's a lot of
tools that support that.
So, we talked about HCP.
The thing we all use,
the thing we all code in,
the thing that is broadcasting
my signal today to everybody.
Let's just the hypertext
transport protocol.
HTTP is made up of two distinct
parts the request and the response,
the request what's going to the server,
the response, what's being responded to.
And here's what a request
actually looks like.
It's got get, it's got the path.
It's got the connection protocol type.
So in this case, it's HTTP1.
The hosts is me.
And the rest are just headers.
We talked a little bit
about headers earlier, but
headers are just these little bits of
information that tell the request and
the response what's actually happening.
And these are really important.
What are cookies?
>> Baked goods.
>> Yes, cookies are baked goods, but
a cookie is just another header.
Nothing fancy about it.
But these are all really powerful.
For example,
the accept encoding gzip in br broadly.
That just says, that's just
the browser saying like, hey, Nginx,
if you want to send me back some gzip,
I can deal with it.
If you want to send me back some Brotli,
I can deal with that too.
And Brotli is just a different
type of compression.
We didn't implement it today because
it's still not baked into Nginx, and
we're not going to rebuild the binaries.
It's a whole thing.
It's a whole thing we
don't want to go into.
And the request has the header,
it's a key value.
So it's the key and the value.
The host is the key.
The value is jemyoung.com.
User agent.
We could have a whole course on user
agents and why they look like this today.
We won't go into it, but we just
read the last part, which is Chrome,
which is supposedly equivalent to Safari,
which is supposedly equivalent to WebKit.
It's a whole thing.
It's a whole thing we
won't go into either.
Some common headers that you've seen and
dealt with is user agent,
who's requesting me.
This is important because certain
browsers don't support certain features.
So we write the header or
we read the header and
we say like, okay,
you can support native ES6 or ES7.
That's fine.
We won't have to run through Babel or
anything like that.
Except what the device will handle,
it accepts certain types of files.
The languages are really important,
we talked about scale.
That's how we translate all our strings.
So, we don't assume
everybody speaks English.
So, we read their browser language
to understand what strings we need
to translate back for them.
The content type, set cookie,
is the header we talked about, but
it sets cookies which are really useful.
And then if we want a custom header
that we don't want to interfere step on
the toes of any other known headers,
we use the x,
x dash whatever is just a custom header,
you can set whatever you want there.
The response looks a lot like the request,
usually a little bit shorter because
we don't need to send back as
much information as many headers.
So, the browser is going to send all
these headers because it wants us to know
exactly who we are, who it is and
what what it accepts.
The response is usually much simpler,
it sends back a 200 which is a status
code and then the server type just for
us to know, so in this case
we're running Nginx on Ubuntu.
Some common status codes that you
all know is 200, which is okay,
301 is moved permanently.
302 is a temporary redirect,
as in it's redirecting now, but
you come back later,
it might be back to normal.
401 is not authorized.
500 you're probably all seen
probably too many times,
which is like something's gone wrong,
and we don't really know.
But all these are actually different
categories of status codes.
So, if I see a five anything I
know it's a server error for sure.
If I see a 40 thing I
know it's a client error.
I don't actually have to know
the specifics of the definition of 401
and a 403.
I just know that four is the client error.
Two is always going to be success,
just different flavors of success.
And then one is information.
I'd say of all the status codes, probably
people are less familiar with the one.
But that's also a useful status code too.
It has things like continue.
That's usually about it.
Like 101 is like a continue,
as in you've got this header.
There's actually more data to come.
And we actually use that to send
back data a little bit faster.
I won't go into that.
That's one performance tuning,
but the one is information.
So, this one's an interesting one.
This one's more philosophical.
So, knowing what you know about status
codes, what's the proper status code for
successful POST requests?
Anybody?
Take a guess to one.
>> A 201?
>> Yeah, good job 201 is probably
the proper status code for
a successful POST request.
Remember, a POST request is
the equivalent to a right or
an insert, so
201 just means created successfully.
However, most people just use 200,
and that just means, okay.
But I like getting specific with
status codes because they mean very
specific things.
There's a difference between a 200 and
a 201.
But generally you see the same kind.
Just like if someone's not authorized,
you can send a 401 or 403,
but they mean different things.
Why we use status codes and
why they're so important?
It tells us a lot of information
about what's going on the server.
For instance, if we see a 500 error,
that doesn't really mean a whole lot.
If we see something like a 501,
that's telling me more specific
information about what's happening.
That way, if the server is down,
it'll always respond with a 500.
Like we saw in that example
where we connected to Nginx,
my application wasn't running,
we got a 502.
Which told me my server is up and
running or it told me my Ubuntu server,
my droplet is up and running and
Nginx is up and running.
But my application wasn't up and
running, and
we got all that from just the status code.
That's why status codes are really
powerful because they tell us all this
information with very little overhead.
So, we understand request and response.
Let's talk about securing
our HTTP connection.
So, right now our servers
are running wide in the open.
Remember the traceroute exercise where we
saw all the different hops along the way
it takes to get to the server.
Well, what if there is a bad actor
somewhere in the middle there just
reading all of our data.
What can we do about that?
Well, we can encrypt the connection
because right now it's not encrypted, and
in the early days of the internet
nothing was encrypted,
which when you think about
it it's kind of wild.
We're sending our credit cards,
and our passwords and all that and
it's really, really easy for
an actor in the middle,
called a man in the middle attack,
just to sniff out all that information.
And all it takes is just
a misconfigured server somewhere, and
they got your credit card.
Really kind of basic stuff,
which is why all modern browsers
will require you to be on HTTPS.
And if you're not, they'll send you
up that nasty warning like, hey,
warning, you're not on
a secure connection.
It didn't used to be that way.
That's actually probably a new invention.
But it's good.
We want all of our connections to be
encrypted all the time.
So, with the HTTPS, we learned about
encryption a little bit earlier,
or hashing, if you will.
This one is just encryption.
Anybody that's in the middle,
it's just going to see gibberish
because they don't have the keys.
So, your server has a key and your browser
has a key, and they negotiate somewhere
along the way and they encrypt all
that data moving back and forth.
So, now let's make a modern website with
HTTPS because you got to have it for
a modern website.
You get that nice lock icon,
that means you're official.